Use coercion for arguments (#29)
rust-unofficial/patterns: idioms/coercion-arguments.md

# Use borrowed types for arguments

## Description

Using a target of a deref coercion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument which may increase its utility as it increases the number of viable inputs for this function.
For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`, or even `&T` as opposed to a `&Box<T>`. 

> Not only that, you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection, as can be illustrated in each of the previous examples. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not only that, you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection, as it will be illustrated in the following examples. 
```

# Use borrowed types for arguments

## Description

> Using a target of a deref coercion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument which may increase its utility as it increases the number of viable inputs for this function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a target of a deref coercion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument.
In this way, the function will accept more input types.
```

> For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`, or even `&T` as opposed to a `&Box<T>`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example; using `&str` instead of `&String`, or `&Path` instead of `&PathBuf` or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`, or even `&T` as opposed to a `&Box<T>`. 
```

Not only that, you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection, as it will be illustrated in the following examples. 
For instance, a `String` has a layer of indirection, so a `&String` will have two layers of indrection.
We can avoid this by using `&str` instead, and letting `&String` coerce to a `&str` whenever the function is invoked. 

## Example

> For this example, we will illustrate some differences for using `&String` as a function argument versus using a `&str`, but the ideas easily apply to using `&Vec<T>` versus using a `&[T]`, or even using a `&T` versus a `&Box<T>`. 

Reviewer 2: This is a repetition of line 6. Let's keep this or the other one.

Reviewer: updated it already, press "refresh" :-P

Consider an example where we wish to determine if a word contains three consecutive vowels.

> We don't need to own the string to determine this so we will take a reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We don't need to own the string to determine this, so we will take a reference.
```

# Use borrowed types for arguments

## Description

Using a target of a deref coercion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument.
In this way, the function will accept more input types.

> For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`.  This is not limited to slice-able or fat pointer types. In fact you should always prefer using the __borrowed type__ over __borrowing the owned type__, e.g., `&T` to `&Box<T>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&Path` instead of `&PathBuf`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`.  This is not limited to slice-able or fat pointer types. In fact you should always prefer using the __borrowed type__ over __borrowing the owned type__, e.g., `&T` to `&Box<T>`.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we should state that without discussing the general differences of `Path` and `PathBuf`, I feel the example without stating it is much clearer for the comparisons.

We can avoid this by using `&str` instead, and letting `&String` coerce to a `&str` whenever the function is invoked. 

## Example

For this example, we will illustrate some differences for using `&String` as a function argument versus using a `&str`, but the ideas apply as well to using `&Vec<T>` versus using a `&[T]` or using a `&T` versus a `&Box<T>`.

Consider an example where we wish to determine if a word contains three consecutive vowels.
We don't need to own the string to determine this so we will take a reference.

The code might look something like this:

```rust
fn three_vowels(word: &String) -> bool {
    let mut vowel_count = 0;
    for c in word.chars() {
        match c {
            'a' | 'e' | 'i' | 'o' | 'u' => {
                vowel_count += 1;
                if vowel_count >= 3 {
                    return true
                }
            }
            _ => vowel_count = 0
        }
    }
    false
}

fn main() {
    let ferris = "Ferris".to_string();
    let curious = "Curious".to_string();
    println!("{}: {}", ferris, three_vowels(&ferris));
    println!("{}: {}", curious, three_vowels(&curious));

>     // Using a `&String` type in our arguent we will find the following example fails:
>     // println!("Ferris: {}", three_vowels("Ferris"));
>     // println!("Curious: {}", three_vowels("Curious"));
> 
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}
TODO REMOVE ME```

This works fine because we are passing a `&String` type as a parameter.

What if we try to pass `&str` instead?

TODO REMOVE ME```rust,ignore
println!("Ferris: {}", three_vowels("Ferris"));
println!("Curious: {}", three_vowels("Curious"));
TODO REMOVE ME```
```

Reviewer 2: I had to insert TODO REMOVE ME because if you want to do github suggestions you can't mess up with code blocks

Reviewer: I've put that inside the function before and commented it out to let people try it in the playground.

Reviewer: Pushed the last version I wrote now, can you read it if it's fine?

# Use borrowed types for arguments

## Description

Using a target of a deref coercion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument.
In this way, the function will accept more input types.

> This is not limited to slice-able or fat pointer types. In fact you should always prefer using the __borrowed type__ over __borrowing the owned type__. E.g., `&str` over `&String`, `&[T]` over `&Vec<T>` or `&T` over `&Box<T>`.

Reviewer 3: Nit: I prefer Oxford commas, especially in complex sentences like this.

```suggestion
This is not limited to slice-able or fat pointer types. In fact you should always prefer using the __borrowed type__ over __borrowing the owned type__. E.g., `&str` over `&String`, `&[T]` over `&Vec<T>`, or `&T` over `&Box<T>`.
```

> For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`.  This is not limited to slice-able or fat pointer types. In fact you should always prefer using the __borrowed type__ over __borrowing the owned type__, e.g., `&T` to `&Box<T>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is not limited to slice-able or fat pointer types. In fact you should always prefer using the __borrowed type__ over __borrowing the owned type__. E.g., `&str` over `&String`, `&[T]` over `&Vec<T>` or `&T` over `&Box<T>`.
```

Looks duplicated to have examples twice in both places. We should make it one, I saw the previous comment but it was resolved.

> Using borrowed types you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection, as it will be illustrated in the following examples. For instance, a `String` has a layer of indirection, so a `&String` will have two layers of indrection.

Reviewer 3: "as it will be illustrated in the following examples" is redundant and can be removed.

```suggestion
Using borrowed types you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection. For instance, a `String` has a layer of indirection, so a `&String` will have two layers of indrection.
```

We can avoid this by using `&str` instead, and letting `&String` coerce to a `&str` whenever the function is invoked. 

## Example

For this example, we will illustrate some differences for using `&String` as a function argument versus using a `&str`, but the ideas apply as well to using `&Vec<T>` versus using a `&[T]` or using a `&T` versus a `&Box<T>`.

Consider an example where we wish to determine if a word contains three consecutive vowels.
We don't need to own the string to determine this, so we will take a reference.

The code might look something like this:

```rust
fn three_vowels(word: &String) -> bool {
    let mut vowel_count = 0;
    for c in word.chars() {
        match c {
            'a' | 'e' | 'i' | 'o' | 'u' => {
                vowel_count += 1;
                if vowel_count >= 3 {
                    return true
                }
            }
            _ => vowel_count = 0
        }
    }

>     false

Reviewer 4: Would using bytes here be a better choice?

Reviewer 2: bytes instead of characters? Why? It might look scary for beginners.

Reviewer 4: Is it really that scary, it's just low-effort change from `'a'` to `b'a'` and `chars()` to `bytes()` for a lot more performance?

Reviewer: That would be good if you would do that in your own code when using a `three_vowels` function that is optimized for performance, but I think for examples it's more about what they show overall, and this example is not about performance or `chars vs bytes` but about `&str vs &String`  or Coercion in function arguments. So as I know what you mean, I think changing this to bytes is not overly relevant to this example.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Using bytes introduces another concept (UTF-8 encoding) which distracts from the main point.

}

fn main() {
    let ferris = "Ferris".to_string();
    let curious = "Curious".to_string();
    println!("{}: {}", ferris, three_vowels(&ferris));
    println!("{}: {}", curious, three_vowels(&curious));

>     // Using a `&String` type in our argument we will find the following example fails:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // This works fine, but the following two lines would fail:
```

An example of this could look like this:

```rust
fn three_vowels(word: &str) -> bool {
    let mut vowel_count = 0;
    for c in word.chars() {
        match c {
            'a' | 'e' | 'i' | 'o' | 'u' => {
                vowel_count += 1;
                if vowel_count >= 3 {
                    return true
                }
            }
            _ => vowel_count = 0
        }
    }
    false
}

fn main() {
    let sentence_string = 
        "Once upon a time, there was a friendly curious crab named Ferris".to_string();
    for word in sentence_string.split(' ') {
        if three_vowels(word) {
            println!("{} has three consecutive vowels!", word);
        }
    }
}
```

Running this example using our function declared with an argument type `&str` will yield

```bash
curious has three consecutive vowels!
```

However, this example will not run when our function is declared with an argument type `&String`. 
This is because string slices are a `&str` and not a `&String` which would require an allocation to be converted to `&String` which is not implicit, whereas converting from `String` to `&str` is cheap and implicit.

> 

Reviewer: Missing:
- Discussion
- Advantages
- Disadvantages

Reviewer 2: mmm..Do you mean that this chapter should be restructured to include those?

Because I don't feel like other content should be added. There is the risk that we create repetitions.

Reviewer: I felt that this could take out repetition and bundle it under the mentioned points instead of spreading it over the article. 🤔 Just an idea though.

Reviewer 3: I'm happy to land this now and iterate on it later. This document might not be perfect but I think it's good enough, and a rewrite will probably drag this PR out too much.

Reviewer: Agreed ;-)

> ## See also
> 
> For more discussion on how to handle `String` and `&str` see [this blog series (2015)](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112023149/https://hermanradtke.com/2015/05/03/string-vs-str-in-rust-functions.html) by Herman J. Radtke III.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## See also
- [Rust Language Reference on Type Coercions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/type-coercions.html)
- For more discussion on how to handle `String` and `&str` see [this blog series (2015)](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112023149/https://hermanradtke.com/2015/05/03/string-vs-str-in-rust-functions.html) by Herman J. Radtke III.
```

> # Using coercion for arguments

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Use coercion for arguments
```
I think `Use` is better than `Using`, title should also be updated in index.

> # Using coercion for arguments

Reviewer 5: I think it's better to emphasize the idea of using *borrowed types*, rather than the deref operations / coercions that target them.

It was always more idiomatic to use the borrowed types, even before we had deref coercions as a language feature (i.e. rust-lang/rfcs#241). The coercions just made them easier to use.

## Description

> Usings a target of a deref coericion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument.  For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`, or even `&T` as opposed to a `&Box<T>`.  Not only that, you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection, as can be illustrated in each of the previous examples.  For instance, a `String` has a layer of indirection, so a `&String` will have two layers of indrection.  We can avoid this by using `&str` instead, and letting `&String` coerce to a `&str` whenever the function is invoked.  And finally, using deref targets for a function can increase the number of viable inputs for your function which may increase its utility.

Reviewer 5: Nit: "using" not "usings"

> Usings a target of a deref coericion can increase the flexibility of your code when you are deciding which argument type to use for a function argument.  For example; using `&str` instead of a `&String`, or `&[T]` in preference of `&Vec<T>`, or even `&T` as opposed to a `&Box<T>`.  Not only that, you can avoid layers of indirection for those instances where the owned type already provides a layer of indirection, as can be illustrated in each of the previous examples.  For instance, a `String` has a layer of indirection, so a `&String` will have two layers of indrection.  We can avoid this by using `&str` instead, and letting `&String` coerce to a `&str` whenever the function is invoked.  And finally, using deref targets for a function can increase the number of viable inputs for your function which may increase its utility.

Reviewer 5: I think the first and last sentences of this paragraph are saying the same thing? Feels like this needs a refactor -- I'd put the "more flexibility" and "fewer layers of indirection" points in separate paragraphs, at least.

fn three_vowels(word: &str) -> bool {
```

> then the both of the previous examples will compile and print the same output.

Reviewer 5: Nit: extra "the"

curious has three consecutive vowels!
```

> However, this example will not run when our function is declared with an argument type `&String`.  This is because string slices are a `&str` and not a `&String`.

Reviewer 5: Should mention how `&str` can't be coerced to `&String`, because the other direction does work.

e.g. "This is because string slices are of type `&str`, which cannot be converted to `&String`"

> However, this example will not run when our function is declared with an argument type `&String`.  This is because string slices are a `&str` and not a `&String`.

Reviewer 6: Well, technically you can convert but it requires an allocation and is not implicit, whereas String -> str is cheap and implicit
